In the fall of 37, the regular vet courses, vet anatomy and vet physiology.
And where was the, describe the veterinary facilities at that time?
Okay, it was principally Francis Hall and the veterinary hospital.
Those were the two places we spent most of our time.
Which was to the north?
Francis Hall now is just right beside of the Evans Library.
They built the library there.
And about how many were there in your entering class?
Well, I would say that our class was about 70-something graduated, so there must have been maybe a few more than that.
A few of our entering, I think, maybe failed a course or so and then came out the next year.
But there were about 70-something finally graduated in 1941.
And about how many of those had done their first years at A&M?
I would think the great majority of men.
Of course, I hadn't.
I was one of the few that hadn't.
Now, there were also in my class some older men.
I remember one had been an insurance man, insurance, so there were a few older men in my class.
In fact, I think there was one fellow that said he was 35 when he graduated in 41.
But they were mostly...
Weren't in the Corps.
They were mostly so-called special day students, special students.
There were some of those students, but the majority were Corps or Corps.
How were you all received into the veterinary school?
Was there an opening day, a speech?
Did the dean?
No, I don't recall any.
I don't think there was anything special.
Did you all take the same courses?
Yeah, we took veterinary courses.
Basically, what were those first years?
Well, you had veterinary anatomy and a year of veterinary anatomy, one and two, I believe, and spring semester would be veterinary two.
And then you had veterinary physiology, that was your first year.
Oh, God, I'd have to look at an old catalog, but I remember those two vet courses.
Then I believe we had a histology, veterinary histology, but that might have been in our next year.
I'm not for sure of that.
And then we had some other courses.
I think I had an animal husbandry course along in there too with those vet courses.
And then I had organic chemistry.
Yeah, I had that.
I had my freshman chemistry, so the only chemistry I had to have was organic, and I remember that very distinctly.
I would come out of there Monday afternoon.
Chemistry really never did appeal to me much.
I'd come out, and my collar would be unbuttoned, and you wanted to know a nickname of a professor.
Birchard was a little short German.
They called him Wee Willie.
because he was short and all, and he'd give us a pop quiz every time we showed up.
I don't know how I passed the course, but I finally did.
I think the reason I passed it, we were distilling ether, and if you can think of any more dangerous proposition than that, I don't know, but I remember the tube going down the floor, but the ether didn't blow up.
My suction, big heavy glass, an Erlenmeyer flask was up here on a burner, and something happened.
of the mixture there, and it blew up.
And black smoke went all over that chemistry room, and we ran to the windows to get some air, and I can still see Mr. Burchard over there.
He was just tackling.
He was laughing.
He thought that was the greatest plan ever.
And I think that's why I passed the course.
But anyhow, I was starting about my color on the button.
I'd come out of that on Monday afternoon after being in the lab from 1 to 4, and I'd start through the academic building, or the old main, whatever you want to call it.
And there was an officer of the day there.
And I wasn't purposely doing it, but I wasn't having my mind on my collar being unbuttoned.
And he'd give me four rams.
And that happened time after time.
I guess he finally thought I was doing it on purpose.
And that's the only time I ever walked the bullring on a Saturday morning was because I had my collar unbuttoned on Monday afternoon all the time.
your first year in vet school did you still live over in the core dorm area oh yeah we were we were always there no matter what so you're still having the same core routine yeah in my fish year now no the no when i got into the vets the next year i was a sophomore so i wasn't a fish anymore no but you still were in the core oh yeah you still had that yeah i was in the core for three years and i didn't take advanced military because
In those days, a veterinarian would automatically be a first lieutenant when he graduated.
But when I got to be a senior, they quit.
So I didn't.
I still could have taken a commission in my senior year,
This was for the war, of course, and I didn't want to go to summer camp after I graduated.
So I didn't take it.
So then I finished A&M without a commission.
And I was married, though, when the war broke out.
And you want to know where I was?
We'll get to that later.
OK.
All right.
Your veterinary, that first year in vet school,
difficult in terms of the hours you were in class and lab compare that year to the previous year.
How hard was that first year in vet school?
Well, it was more difficult than the first freshman year.
Were you in class and lab all day?
Well, I don't know.
We had veterinary anatomy and I didn't
I didn't like it particularly the way it was taught and all.
I just stuck with it and passed it.
Who were some of the special teachers that you had in vet school?
Well, Dr. Milliff was a
I ran into him in veterinary pathology, I think.
I don't know if that was my first.
I don't think it was the first vet year.
I believe it was the second we had veterinary.
We might have had pathology, though, two semesters in that first year.
I can't remember.
That's Dr. John Milliff.
John Milliff, right.
M-I-L-L-I-F-F.
Right.
He was a very good teacher.
Make believe I didn't know him.
Describe him.
He was a...
tall, good-bodied man, tall and filled out.
He wasn't fat, though.
He was very plain-spoken.
He didn't mince words.
I think the first course I had under him, I got a D. I don't know why, but the next time I had him, I made a B.
So, you know.
Did y'all have a nickname for him?
Honest John?
Yeah, that's right.
Honest John.
But now the character that it run into later was Dr. Turk.
He was the biggest character in the vet school.
I don't know how many.
Make believe I didn't know him.
Describe Dr. R.D.
Turk.
Well, he was on the charter side.
And, let's see, he had a little mustache, didn't he?
I don't know him.
And...
He was a graduate of Kansas State, 33, I think.
And he was famous for his stories.
And he told this story about the woman.
Did I tell you that about the cat?
A woman, Dr. Turk got kind of well-known through the public.
He made talks outside and things.
So this woman didn't really know him, and she called Dr. Turk up at his office one day.
Why she called him, nobody ever knows, but she said, Dr. Turk, I've got a cat up in my tree.
Can you help me, I think is what she said.
And Dr. Turk thought a minute, and he said, lady, he said, I've seen in my lifetime a lot of cats up in a tree, but I've never seen a cat skeleton up in a tree.
So he hung up the phone.
That was one of his famous stories.
What was his teaching technique?
Parasitology.
To tell you the truth, I didn't have Dr. Turk.
I had Dr. Van Volkenberg as a parasitologist.
He was from Cornell, I believe.
He was quite a distinguished, interesting fellow, but I wouldn't say he was fun and game like Turk.
How did they try to build in each of you the philosophy of veterinary medicine, the quality, the principles?
I don't recall we had any formal training along that line.
We soon saw a person like Dr. Leonard in the clinic, really knew what he was doing, and Dr. Armistead taught us small animals, and so we just picked up on them, I guess, more for inspiration or what a veterinarian's all about, just from actually watching them.
Did you make some special, special friends in those vet school years?
Yes.
In fact, I got a letter from one, Terry's over in Monroe, Louisiana.
He told me some years ago here, when he was here, he finished here in 41, went to Monroe, Louisiana.
There were 65 dairies over there when he went there in the summer of 41.
Today, there's one dairy.
Oh, my.
That's kind of typical how agriculture's changed, you might say.
And, yeah, Dr. Einhorn, and then, uh,
I have another classmate.
I haven't seen him in a few years, but he's been over here in the past.
Dr. Fordson and Tommy Fordson in Louisiana.
We went duck hunting one time down here when we were students on the Navisot.
or we were going down to the Navisot, and so we were going down this old gravel road about, you know when you get down here at this deadly place they talk about down here on Highway 6 where Peach Creek is, there's a gravel road that goes back toward the Navisot.
We walked down that gravel road, and so he wanted to get up to the tree and look for ducks, and I said, Tommy, that tree is covered with poison ivy.
You don't want to climb that tree.
You know that so-and-so climbed that tree, and he got poison ivy, and he went to the hospital over here with it.
That's how...
He learned about poison ivy.
I've never forgotten that.
Yeah, and then I had a classmate, Larson, from Connecticut.
We roomed together two years, and unfortunately, he left here and went back to Connecticut, and then later he died sort of prematurely.
His wife had written me that he had just senility.
I don't know exactly the medical diagnosis, but he...
He died, and I've still got a couple of classmates in Taylor, Texas, and then as far as I know, two over in Austin.
Did you all study together?
I want to tell you who I studied with, and he became a general in the Army, and I haven't ever seen him since we left, but his name was Castleberry, and he got to be a general because when they started this K-9 Corps, he was in the right place, and I talked to him one time on the phone years ago, but
And we'd never seen each other.
Now, whether he was still living or not, I don't know.
Did some of y'all study together at night?
Yeah, we used to study up in the old academic building at night.
And that's when I'd get so burnt out.
And I'd hear that train coming through.
And I got to admit, many of the night I'd caught that train, except I had to face my father.
And I couldn't do that, so I stayed with it.
So at times you did ask yourself whether or not you were going to stay with Vef Medicine.
Whether I was going to stay at A&M period, yeah.
I was, I guess, a combination of weather and study and everything.
Young guy, you know.
It's a wonder I didn't run off and join the Marine Corps.
All right, then during the summers while you were in vet school, what did you do?
All right, I worked in my father's, well, biologic plant.
They called it serum plant, but they didn't make serum, but it was biologic in Amarillo.
I worked there two summers, yeah.
And that's where I learned something about the business there.
And so you decided to stay with vet medicine.
Oh, yeah, I really, I guess it was just one of those things when I didn't want to leave.
I never was probably serious about leaving that medicine, but when I'd hear that training, I'd think about it.
If you needed advice, who did you turn to?
Was there a teacher, a counselor, an advisor?
Golly, I don't know really if I ever needed advice exactly.
I never...
There wasn't, I don't think there was much counseling in those days.
You might have gone to your senior commander.
You know, the Corps ran, really, the Corps ran A&M College, you might say, in those days.
Like I was telling you about the Bull, the Bull couldn't do anything about it, kicked them out.
We didn't, but somehow it didn't.
So basically it was a...
military organization, and I think in most cases, those are the boys that went over in World War II and gave a lot of jobs.
Once you go to the vet school, you and your buddies, you're still in the Corps, but did y'all participate less in any of the pranks or the jokes?
Were y'all more serious students than the undergraduates were?
It could have been.
I wouldn't say that's a possibility.
We, once you're in the vet school, you sort of, of course, we're still in the core, and you had those associated, but in classrooms, you were just with other veterinary students.
Mainly, of course, you'd have, you took agriculture courses, you were with some of the other fellows, yeah.
All right, the football team became pretty good in those years.
In 39, yeah.
Describe some of those games.
Well, I remember one year, let's see, SMU came down and I didn't, I had a bad cold so I couldn't go to the game and I think that was a three to nothing game.
They beat them out here on Kyle Field, but I will describe a game that when my freshman year
I don't think it was the first game, but we played TCU at Kyle Field.
That was when the great Sammy Ball was there, and he was out on Kyle Field, and I saw him.
And he'd had a little injury to his ankle, I believe, that game that day in 36, but we still, it didn't keep him from passing, but A&M,
beat TCU out here, and it was the first time, I looked it up in Death Loss book, it was the first time in 14 years, either up there or here, that we beat TCU in 14 years.
So that was quite a game.
All right, you knew some of those great Aggie football players, didn't you?
Well, I didn't know them real personally.
Now, Kimbrough, there was three boys.
There was John, the famous football player, then Jack played football, and Wallace was the other brother that was kind of lame.
I don't know.
whether Wallace, his daughter's this Fran Kimbrough here, but I don't know, she was on TV today.
I called her one time not too long ago and asked if she was Wallace's daughter and she said, yeah, I knew Wallace pretty well.
He was in, wasn't in our company, but I think he was in the company next to us, Wallace, and I knew him pretty well.
He was county agent here for a while.
Describe Jack Kimbrough as far as you knew him as a student.
What kind of person was he?
Really, I didn't know him that well.
See, we were in the top two floors, and they were on the bottom floors of dormitory 12.
And so I really didn't know him personally.
But was he stuck up?
No, I don't think so.
I think he's very down to earth.
In fact,
Excuse me for interrupting.
May I offer you another couple of options?
No, no, no.
Another one would keep me awake too long.
Thank you.
No, I think he was just a down-earth, and I've heard that
that he wouldn't come back to A&M, I guess he did this year, did he?
But before that, because he was put out about firing Coach Norton, so he's up on his right.
But I'll tell you one instance, they were a motley crew, they would line up first at, see we were then in the non-military section since I didn't take advance, we were in 12 and we were on the top two floors.
numbers us vet boys and the football boys would line up first and then we'd line up behind them and oh they they were a motley crew i remember they turned their campaign hat up and some of them had big safety pins around they were all but very spick and span military but there was a west pointer there
They called him Soapy, and I don't know where they got that name, but it was Williams.
So one night he was watching over there, and so the boys didn't think anybody was around, the football boys, so they just broke and run for Duncan Hall.
See, we were going in those days to Duncan Hall.
And they broke and run, and he happened to see them.
So he whistled and came back, and there's his football team, everybody.
He brought them all back and had them stand at attention, and then march in.
As far as you all knew, the football players went to class, passed their work.
Yeah.
Were you all aware of any special easy courses for athletes then?
No, I wasn't aware of that.
I don't think there were any.
I was just wondering.
No, I don't know.
Describe the new dorms as you students thought of them.
How were they better than the old ones?
Well, see, I was in Hart Hall.
The only old dorm I was in in my sophomore year was Goodwin, and it was an old dorm.
Compare the new dorms, the new core dorms to Goodwin.
Well, a good one was the old style where your restroom was one end, maybe they had them on each end, but whenever, if you had an outbreak of diarrhea or something, then there were long lines waiting for the bathroom.
Where in, like Hart Hall,
my freshman roommate and I, this is just an example, we shared a toilet and a shower on the other side with two sophomores.
So there were four of us that had, so that was really something where the old dormitories were just long lines if they had to go to the bathroom in an emergency room.
But did you all think the new core dorms were nice?
Oh yeah, the new ones were very, well of course me coming out of Hart Hall,
But they, yeah, they were nice.
They weren't, let me see, I'm trying to think.
I can't remember.
I was just in that darn one year there at number 12.
I can't remember just exactly where the bathrooms were.
Was it different to eat in Duncan compared to eating in Cebisa?
Well, uh,
Yeah, we were upperclassmen.
Well, of course, I was a sophomore.
Well, I was, I ate in Sabisa Hall 36 to 37, 37 to 38, 38 to 39, so I ate there three years.
I can't really remember too much difference there.
All right, do you remember going through Final Review the first time?
Yes, let's see.
Yes.
What feelings went through your heart about that?
Well, you mean the first time was being a freshman.
Yeah, when a freshman.
Oh, I don't know.
I guess we're just feeling glad that school's out, probably.
And it was held on the drill field.
Yeah, right.
Do you remember your first Silver Taps?
What was Silver Taps like?
Well...
I remember Silver Taps, but I can't say that I really remember my first one.
But was Silver Taps a significant series?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
It was lights out, and you stood at attention out there in the dark.
I can't remember if we all went over in front of the— I can't remember if we went over in front of the— or just stood outside the dormitory.
Maybe that was where it was.
whether we went to the YMC building or not.
Was there ever a Silver Taps for anybody you knew well?
Did you lose a buddy or anything during those years?
No, I don't remember Silver Taps for anybody I knew.
Do you remember going to Mustard before World War II?
No, let me see, no.
See, I left here in 1941 before World War II.
But do you remember going to Mustard
No.
During those student years?
Well, let's see, muster.
April 21st, muster.
Yeah.
Well, see, that was April 21st.
No, I don't remember that.
See, I have a theory that World War II is when muster really began to be important.
I think you're right there.
It's after that Corregidor muster when the veterans come back and so forth.
I've been to muster several times out here since I've been here.
Let's see.
Did you buy senior boots?
No, see, because I didn't take advancements.
What about when you bought your senior ring?
Yeah, I bought it, and I've got it in there on the shelf.
Do you remember what it cost?
Yeah, I think it cost... We played an act... I think it was $25, or it could have been $35.
That was money in those days.
What did you... Were you proud to get it?
Oh, yeah.
And I wear it at a special occasion, but
When I was in veterinary practice, it bothered me.
I'd be taking it on also.
I just got out of the habit.
And it's a little tight now, but I'll have to show it to you.
It's in mental condition because it doesn't work that much.
Do you have any Aggie Ring stories where somebody spotted it someplace or you lost it?
No, never lost it, no.
I'll tell you what I did lose, and I wish I could find it.
I was on the, our outfit, H Infantry, won the Intramural Rifle Championship in 19...
38, and I can show it in the annular.
And there's a picture of us as intramural champions.
I was the only sophomore on there.
But the funny thing was, somebody came through the company when we were getting ready to have
the rifle championship and said, did anybody ever shoot a gun in this outfit?
I said, well, I grew up shooting a rifle, and I was pretty good at 22.
So I was the only sophomore on the team, and the other three were seniors, but we won it that year, and so our picture's in the 38th annual, and I can show it to you if you want to see it.
And I got a little medal, and I was wearing it on a chain, and I was out on the ranch, and a branch got it, and so it's somewhere on the ranch.
I got a
a grandson that has a metal detector and someday I maybe will get up, I don't know if he'll ever find it.
You didn't get a baccalaureate degree, so you didn't go through commencement until you graduated from the vet school?
Yeah, but I should have gotten, as I was told, an animal hunter degree.
At least when I got my vet degree, but I forgot, and the college didn't catch it.
And you got your vet degree in May of 41?
Yes.
No, it was in June.
We had this break.
I got married.
We finished school the 30th of May, which is Friday.
I got married the next day, 31st, and we had this week off since we didn't have finals.
Came back, I think it was the 4th of June.
All right, let me back up a little.
Were you and your buddies aware of the World War II starting in Europe in the fall of 1939?
Yeah, but it's kind of a distant thing.
We didn't think... I wasn't around anybody that I ever thought much about.
It was over there and we were over here.
So you didn't talk very much about it.
By the time you graduated, were you all thinking more about the war might involve you?
Well...
No, I think this was in June of 41, and then six months for Pearl Harbor, more or less.
And I think most of us just wanted to get out and get going vet medicine.
And if I'd have been here in Bryan, Travis Bryan Sr., I don't know if he had anything against the vets or not, but he was driving up those single vets and drafting them.
In fact, I have a friend over here in San Antonio.
His dad was a doctor, by the way, and he was, see, I signed up in Amarillo, which saved me, in a way, but he was signed up here.
Oh, for the draft, you mean?
For the draft, and he was, as a graduate veterinarian, he carried a bedpan in the Navy for two years as a graduate veterinarian.
I would have tried to have gotten that, but anyhow, to make a story, when I got out in 41,
As I say, I could have still got a commission in my senior year, but I didn't want to go to summer camp after I graduated.
So I didn't.
So then the war broke out.
That summer, my wife's just working over in the beauty shop, and she wanted to
She's staying here, and I didn't have a job yet.
So I went, I was going to Iowa because my, I had two second cousins that were daring and everything, and they needed a vet up there pretty bad, and I was going up there.
But the guy in the head of my draft board, he was a clerk, he wasn't really, but I think he ran the draft board more or less.
And he told me that if I was going into practice in Iowa, they would draft me, and I couldn't.
believe it, but I tried to argue with them, it wouldn't help.
So I went up there and looked at the situation over, but I didn't want to be drafted, so I came back and went to work for the city of Amarillo.
So I was to, even though I was married, my wife then was up there in Amarillo, I got tired of the draft board kind of hassling me, so I decided, well, I'll just beat them in their own game, I'll volunteer.
I was married, and so I went to the Army, and
I said, I'm a graduate veterinarian, what would you, what could I enter in?
They said, well, you'd have to go into Buck Private.
I said, well, Buck Private, two years here at A&M.
So I went to the Navy, and the Navy said, they'll give me pharmacist mate first class.
I said, okay.
And we were going to go from Amarillo to Dallas on a Sunday to sign in.
This would have been in 42.
On about a Wednesday, I came down with a strange disease.
It turned out to be brucellosis, unlit fever, and I had all the classical symptoms, and I fought that stuff for years.
Out of much weather, I went in the Navy, but then there was a 4F, and that's where I ended up.
As you got ready to graduate,
How well prepared did you think that the vet school had made you?
How good a program was the vet school?
Well, I think it was a very practical program, yes.
I think graduates went out, and as far as I know, they did all right.
Were you and your buddies proud to be Aggie graduates in veterinary medicine?
Oh, yeah.
We were proud to be through.
But the Aggie part of it, what causes that pride?
Well, I think it's the Corps.
Now, I think if I'd have been a special student, and I have a feeling it's the same out here.
If you're not in the Corps, you don't have that bonding.
Now, I can be wrong, but it's my feeling.
You ate with those guys.
You lived with them.
You saw them every day and all.
I'm not talking about it.
The veterinary group was your academic group.
And your core group was, I think, that's where your so-called Aggie pride comes from.
That's my understanding or my belief.
As you look back on your veterinary professional experience,
Did you come upon any vacancies, any omissions?
For its era, was the veterinary program pretty well done here?
Yes, but like, see, my first job, in fact, it'll come in, might as well, that's where I was in Pearl Harbor.
I was married, living in Fort Worth, and I was a meat inspector on that Sunday.
Of course, I wasn't working that Sunday, but that's where I was.
And you learn a whole...
Well, I guess maybe that's true.
I haven't been in business as such, but you learn the rigmaroles of that business.
But, of course, you have your basis of veterinary training to help you all along.
So that was my first job was as a, what do you call a meat inspector?
Now they're food safety officers is what they call them.
Let me ask this question a different way.
What did you learn at Texas A&M that has been important in your life?
I think I learned discipline is one thing.
We learned discipline.
We fixed those beds just right.
We saluted.
We did all that.
And I think military training is great.
I wish I could get my grandson to a military academy.
Did that have an important carryover value to a veterinarian, that discipline?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I say so.
I think he has a carryover in every phase of life myself.
If you were a consultant,
Now, you're a hired consultant to Texas A&M today.
What advice would you give A&M's leadership today about veterinary medicine and about the university in general?
What would you advise them to do or not do?
Well, personally, I think for a young 17, of course I was 18, boys, if possible, I'd say some military training wouldn't hurt them a bit.
And I think that
helps them develop.